guns
loaded flag jackets
on with this group of Irish Troopers I'm
heading south towards the infamous un
Blue Line the temporary border
separating Lebanon from
Israel their mission to keep the
peace in these
conditions since the war in Gaza began
hisbah in the out of Lebanon has been
locked into a battle with Israel we are
just 500 M from the border with Israel
in the past few weeks this area has come
under heavy fire the peacekeeping troops
tell me their operation has expanded
they are now helping to recover the dead
as well as rescuing local people CAU in
the conflict as you can see to my rear
we have a red house approximately 400 m
here from the post that was struck by
two rounds the family that were inside
that house made their way to the UN post
and we provided them with medical
attention the Irish troops are part of
the United Nations peacekeeping mission
in Lebanon known as
unifil their mandate started back in
1978 God our Father we come here today
to remember and honor our un comrades
and today they are still
here amen our second Ali was just 12
years old when the soldiers first
arrived they taught me English they used
to drop me to school to try to save the
bus cost to be honest we never Tau
either the unifil or Irish peacekeepers
and other unifil contingents that this
Mission will last for over 45 years what
is your main concern now the biggest
concern the biggest concern that this
situation take more time take longer
because I can't take it
anymore to be
honest mati Bas the commander says they
are now preparing for all possible
scenarios we have seen more attacks
deeper into Lebanon we have seen a wider
range of weapons being used we have seen
more destructive potential uh in those
weapons being used so our concern is
that it does escalate unifil hopes the
escalation is still possible but only if
both sides want peace for now there is a
fear of all out
War nafis kavad BBC News Lebanon